Problem#1
Consider the ABB IRB1400 articulated arm in its home position with the dimensions shown below in
millimeters.
Important: Consider the ABB robot with 3-DOF exactly the same as the Elbow Manipulator! In other
words, assume that the robot has three joints ONLY with the configuration/geometry shown below. So,
disregard any additional joints you see at the wrist.
a) Represent the workspace of the robot both mathematically and visually. For visualization, you
can use any software that you know and feel comfortable with. It could be CAD software,
MATLAB, etc. Note: Representing the workspace mathematically means that you need to come
up with the equations of boundary of the workspace from the Side view (2D). For joint rotation
limitations, you can do a search online and/or make assumptions.
b) Attach a spherical wrist to the end-effector of the robot while in its home position. Then, write
the complete inverse kinematics solution (Position and Orientation) for this 6-DOF robot.
Remember, spherical wrist theoretically acts as a point and therefore has no dimensions. Note:
Adding a spherical joint to the robot’s end-effector will add 3 DOF which makes the robot to
have total of 6-DOF (Elbow manipulator + Spherical wrist). The homework is designed to be
similar to the example solved in Chapter 3 of the book, so it should be easy for you to solve for
the inverse kinematics of the robot.
c) Using the solution for Part b, calculate the six joint angles of the robot for the following
given/desired homogenous transformation matrix of the robot:
𝐻 =
1 0
0 1
0 500
0 100
0 0
0 0
1 1500
0 1
d) Derive the 6×𝑛 Jacobian matrix of the robot without the spherical wrist. (The geometric
Jacobian)
e) Calculate the joint velocities of the robot leading to the end-effector velocity of
x = 5 5 10 0 0 0 !. Consider the robot in the position given in Part c (last column of
𝐻) and without the spherical wrist.
f) With mathematical proof, derive and discuss singularities (singular configurations) of the robot
without spherical wrist. Show your work and illustrate examples of singular configurations for
clarity.
